Aren't in this lecture we're going to be creating a growing texture and we're going to take that texture
and apply it to a 3-D form.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So first off I just want to sketch out mine would texture.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to draw a very simple box right here that we can create a
wood texture with an.
And then we can go ahead and get started.
So first what I want to do is I want to figure out how I'm going to create this texture.
Now once again it's very important to look at reference to create your texture.
So I have some reference sitting off to the side of me that I'm looking at on my computer screen and
I'm using that to guide me in how to create my texture.
So the first thing I notice is that it's all pretty dark.
There aren't really any highlights on it.
The are completely white so long ago had an ad in a very light gray value on top of my entire square.
Next I'm going to go ahead and add in all the cracks I see.
So what I see a lot of cracks and so on going to do is just slightly sketch those in work think I want
them to be.
And again I'm doing this very lightly so that if I need to erase anything I can always come back and
eat roots
and I also see a whole right here.
Go ahead and add that in.
Perfect.
So I think that's about where I want all of my cracks to be.
Now I can go ahead and Durkan those in so I can keep them pretty thin.
But make them as dark as possible.
And as we get to the end of these cracks right here we're going to have them sort of fade out and get
really thin.
And on this one right here we're going to have it fade out and get thin on both ends of the crack since
it doesn't connect back to the end of would.
And just a very early quality I mean go ahead and make this one have a little bit of a wider area right
there.
And go ahead and add in this last crack.
Chris now can work on the the texture of our contouring line.
So I'm to go ahead and pull these edges out just a little bit and really enhance those cracks by changing
the outline shape of my wood.
So and I'll go ahead and do the same thing on this bottom area.
And I want to leave this site a little bit lighter since this is where the light is coming down from
that side next to it I'm going to do is I'm a go ahead and start adding in some of my woodgrain texture.
So the way I'm going to do this is I'm just going to first off turn my paper like so because it will
be easier to draw this way and then I'm just going to lightly draw in some straight lines like so.
And these are going to make up my woodgrain.
So there's different things we can do.
We can add in a knot which is basically just a swirly or a couple of circles within each other a bunch
of rings like so.
And then we can just continue to add in that grain around it.
So the grain generally tries to steer clear of knots and so it'll just go round that not right there.
And again I'm looking back at my reference just to make sure that things look correct.
And when you're creating your texture it's not like drawing is still life drawing you don't have to
follow it exactly.
You just want to look at it to get some ideas and also to understand the way the light and the shadow
plays off of it.
And we can never win green cross over these cracks because they're just cracks they're not stopping
the wood grain where it is.
It's just a crack in the wood.
All right.
Great.
So now we have a wood green Textron they might go ahead and go back in there and darken all of my crack
lines because they've gone a little bit lighter after I added in all that wood grain.
All right.
Perfect.
Now I'm going to go ahead and add in my mid-tone And just like when we did our breaks we don't leave
out this upper edge or the bottom edge of my wood for a highlight on my cracks.
And on the top of the wood.
So let me show you what I mean.
And I switch over to a sharpened pencil.
And so we want to add up our mid-tone right up to this edge
just like so.
And then when we get to our cracks we only want to add it up right up to that edge also.
So we want to add a little bit of a white space underneath each one of our cracks so we create that
third dimension by adding a highlight on that edge.
And come all the way over here and do the same.
We'll add it right up to this edge
so we're just going to continue to do that all the way through our work we can even sort of Durkan these
edges in a little bit more just to create some more contrast and shadow just like so.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that throughout my entire texture.
Great.
So now we have in that mid-tone shadow.
Now real quick I'm going to go ahead and read Durkan in all of my cracks.
And then I'm going to go ahead and read and some of my woodgrain so especially on this.
I just want that to stand out a little bit more.
Perfect.
So now we have our wood grain texture.
I'm also going to add in a dark shadow on this bottom edge since this is the opposite side of a light
source.
We can go ahead and do that a little bit of the same thing on the side.
All right.
Great.
So how do we apply this to a 3D form.
Well let's start off by drawing a box.
So this is going to be a wooden box.
Now I'm not really worried about creating a perfect perspective right now just going to quickly sketch
that in like so now what we want to do is we want to go ahead and apply this to our form.
And so our woodgrain needs to be running in this direction on this face and on the surface it needs
to be running in this direction.
And then we're going to see inside our box and so we need our texture to be running in this direction
on that face.
And in this direction on that face.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing we'll do is we're going to go ahead and add in those cracks so I'll decide where
I want those to be.
Again don't forget to have your cracks running in the same direction as your woodgrain.
I'm going to see the edge of this wood right here and then we can go ahead and begin the next piece
of wood right here.
Go ahead and come into this inside area of our box and we'll go ahead and add in that little bit there
also with our little cracks a little to the side.
Then we want to decide where our highly shadow and our mid-tone Chatto intercourse châteaux are going
to be.
So I'm going to make this side of our box or highlight side.
So that means this side of me here is going to be our mid-tone so we can go ahead and fill that in with
a mid-tone value and we want to start out by filling these in with our mid tones and our core shadows.
That way when we add detail on it doesn't get wiped out later by adding in our values.
So go ahead fill that area in and then it sends the highlight is on this side for a box that means this
in sidewall is also going to be a highlight except there's probably going to be a cast shadow being
cast by this wall right here on our rocks.
So that means we can go ahead and add in the cache on the inside.
So I'm going to go ahead and first fill this site in with another mid-tone shadow since it's on the
same plane as this one.
And then I'm going to go ahead and add in that cash and so the cash it is going to be cast off down
at this angle like so.
And then once it hits this wall it's just going to go straight across like this.
Now we can go ahead and fill that in with a darker value and our core shadow is going to be on the other
side of this war here.
And so we're not actually going to see our core shadow.
Now I'm not going to worry about putting the cash out on our surface for now.
Let's just add in the texture.
So what we want to do first is we want to really break this up into different sections.
So let's start with this first one the highlighted area.
So let's start by adding in a little bit of a darker line along this bottom so we can really start getting
some definition.
And also we want to see this edge of the box.
So we need to really draw that out.
Also
like so now we're also going to want to see this top edge of the box
and then we're going to darken this edge in just a little bit more next.
Let's go ahead and add simple and green texture in there.
So just very lightly and with a new sharpened pencil I'm going to go ahead and add in some interesting
wood grain in there and also make sure that you're going with the direction of your box.
That I'm going to go ahead and return these cracks.
All right.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and move on to another side of our box and I'm going to leave some of the detail
out because this box is so small it would be really hard to get in there and add in our mid-tone shadow.
So I'm just going to leave it like this for now and then I'm going to come over to this side which is
my mid-tone shadow side and I'll go ahead and add in a top edge to this wall of our box going to go
had that edge to that.
And same with this side.
And then I can go ahead and start adding in some woodgrain in there.
So this shirt.
Right over here.
I'll just quickly sketch that in.
Doesn't have to be perfect.
Great.
Now I want to go ahead and add in my darker shadow on top of this so I can create a highlight underneath
these edges of my crack.
So real quick let me read Durkan in those cracks so it nor those are.
And then I can go ahead and start adding in that shadow that will be a little bit darker than what I
already have there.
And then I'm going to leave out that tiny little ledge underneath my crack so that way we create that
three dimensional form.
Great.
Now I get a really quick just adding a little bit more of that woodgrain back in there.
Because we've kind of lost it in that dark value.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and move on to these inside walls.
So I'm going to go ahead and first off Durkin my cast shadow a little bit more and maybe even soften
the edge just a little bit.
So and then it side of my cash it was actually going to be very dark darker than this cash story here
on this wall because it's already in shadow.
Next I'm going to go ahead and add in a top ledge to the side of my box.
So and the same with this side.
So I have that connected were like this then come all the way over.
Perfect.
So now what we want to do is we just want to copy the same thing we did on this wall over to this one.
So I go ahead and add in some simple wood texture woodgrain
grit and then to add the same dark shadow on this side of my box so really quick them to Durkan those
cracks back in.
And then I'm going to go ahead and add in some shadowing so we can get that three dimensional form by
adding a highlight right underneath our crack
and then I'm just going to go ahead and Durcan these bottom edges of my box.
So it's a bit more rounded and also stands out a little bit more from my background.
All right.
Great.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to create a realistic wood texture.
Then we took that wood texture and we learned how to apply that to a 3D form so we can create actual
realistic Fromm's the art just texture by our actual objects.
I really hope you enjoyed this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.
Thanks for watching.